## Usage

* Once you have received registered offers and requests, you can trigger "Match Now" to find suitable matches (Navigation Menu >  Mutual Aid > Match Now). These will also be generated by the cronjob if configured and enabled. 
* The extension will find the best match for each individual in the database which is looking for help and create a relationship of the type "Mutual Aid" between the two individuals. The matches are made based on proximity to each other and the number of matching help categories and (if applicable) spoken languages. If help categories and/or languages are used there needs to be at least one match for each.
* Matches will be listed in the **Unconfirmed Matches** report (Navigation Menu >  Mutual Aid > Unconfirmed Matches). 
* Click on the match name will bring up the contact record, and in the **relationships** tab of the record you will see the relationship to the match. At this stage it is set to 'Assigned', which you can see if you click *view*. Clicking *edit* lets you update the status to track the progress of the matching. Each time the Match Now job is run this Assigned match can be replaced with a better match (for e.g. someone nearer).
* Once there is an assigned but not confirmed match, you can send an email to either contact (Actions submenu > Send an email), alerting them of the match and confirming if they are able to cooperate. To save time you could prepare reusable email templates (Navigation Menu > Administer > CiviMail > Message Templates –> "Add Message Template") which you can select when sending an email.
* After you've sent an email to each, you change the relationship status to *Communicated* and the match will no longer appear on the Unconfirmed Matches report.
* Once the volunteer has confirmed that they will help the requestee, you can change the relationship to *confirmed*. 
* Alternatively, if they say they cannot help, you can change it to *cancelled* and then they will reappear in the Unconfirmed Matches report.
* Contacts who cannot be matched are listed in the **Matching Issues** report with an explanation of why (for e.g. not sufficient information to Geocode, they've set number of people to help to zero, etc). This can help you find data issues.
